feat: document PromQL usage (#212)
GreptimeTeam/docs: docs/user-guide/use-promql.md

# Java SDK

## Introduction

> Various ways to invoke PromQL (Prometheus Query Language) in GreptimeDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various ways to invoke PromQL (Prometheus Query Language) in GreptimeDB.
```

> GreptimeDB has reimplemented PromQL natively in Rust, and exposes the ability to several interfaces including Prometheus' HTTP API, GreptimeDB's HTTP API and the SQL interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB has reimplemented PromQL natively in Rust and exposes the ability to several interfaces, including the HTTP API of Prometheus, the HTTP API of GreptimeDB, and the SQL interface.
```

> ## via Prometheus' HTTP API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Via Prometheus' HTTP API
```

<!-- Maybe add a section to introduce the simulated interfaces, when there is more than one supported -->

Prometheus server has a bunch of HTTP APIs (see their [official document](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api)), and GreptimeDB has implemented the [`range_query`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#range-queries) interface, which allows you to query the data in a given time range with PromQL.

> We keep the path and parameter set the same as Prometheus, so you can use the same client to query GreptimeDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We keep the setting of the path and parameter the same with that in Prometheus, so you can use the same client to query GreptimeDB.
```

> ## via GreptimeDB's HTTP API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Via GreptimeDB's HTTP API
```

> GreptimeDB also exposes an HTTP API for querying with PromQL. It's available on `/promql` path under the current stable API version `/v1`, in **GreptimeDB HTTP API Port**. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB also exposes an HTTP API for querying with PromQL. You can find it on `/promql` path under the current stable API version `/v1`, in **GreptimeDB HTTP API Port**. For example:
```

```shell
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:4000/v1/promql?query=sum(some_metric)&start=1676738180&end=1676738780&step=10s'
```

The input parameters are similar to the [`range_query`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#range-queries) in Prometheus' HTTP API:

> - `query=<string>`: Prometheus expression query string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `query=<string>`: Prometheus expression query string
```

> - `start=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>`: Start timestamp, inclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>`: start timestamp, inclusive
```

> - `end=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>`: End timestamp, inclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `end=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>`: end timestamp, inclusive
```

> - `step=<duration | float>`: Query resolution step width in duration format or float number of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `step=<duration | float>`: query resolution step width in duration format or float number of seconds
```

> And the result format is the same as `/sql` interface described [here](supported-protocols/http-api.md#sql).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result format is the same as `/sql` interface described [here](supported-protocols/http-api.md#sql).
```

> ## via SQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Via SQL
```

> GreptimeDB also extends SQL grammar to support PromQL. You can start with the `TQL` (Time-series Query Language) keyword, and then write parameters and query. The grammar looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB also extends SQL grammar to support PromQL. You can start with the `TQL` (Time-series Query Language) keyword to write parameters and query. The grammar looks like this:
```

```sql
TQL [EVAL|EVALUATE] (<START>, <END>, <STEP>) <QUERY>
```

> `<START>` specify the query start range, and `<END>` for end time. `<STEP>` is the query resolution step width. All of them can either be an unquoted number (represent UNIX timestamp for `<START>` and `<END>`, and duration in seconds for `<STEP>`), or a quoted string (represent an RFC3339 timestamp for `<START>` and `<END>`, and duration in string format for `<STEP>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<START>` specifies the query start range and `<END>` specifies the end time. `<STEP>` indentifies the query resolution step width. All of them can either be an unquoted number (represent UNIX timestamp for `<START>` and `<END>`, and duration in seconds for `<STEP>`), or a quoted string (represent an RFC3339 timestamp for `<START>` and `<END>`, and duration in string format for `<STEP>`).
```

For example:

```sql
TQL EVAL (1676738180, 1676738780, '10s') sum(some_metric)
```

> You can write this in all the places that support SQL, including the GreptimeDB HTTP API, SDK, PostgreSQL and MySQL client etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can write the above command in all places that support SQL, including the GreptimeDB HTTP API, SDK, PostgreSQL and MySQL client etc.
```
not sure if "this" in the original sentence refer to command or a query language, but it might be unclear to just use "this" in the last sentence.
